Welcome back to Movie Recaps.
Today I will show you a sci-fi, thriller film
from 2018, titled Tau.
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
Julia is a cunning young woman, who steals
and resells her loot to survive on the mean
streets of a futuristic city.
One night, she doesn't notice that she's being
followed by a man and leads him straight to
her apartment.
Once she's settled in for the night she hears
something and when she checks it out, she
gets kidnapped by her stalker.
In the next shot, Julia wakes up muzzled and
restrained to some kind of chair in a high-tech
lab.
The scientist presses a button that activates
a device that shows Julia's childhood memories
and when the procedure is over she faints.
Next thing, Julia finds herself in a dungeon
and sees two others in there with her.
When the man tries to communicate with her
she pulls away in fear and gets zapped by
the electricity running through the cell bars.
The other prisoners turn away from her and
she sees that they have some kind of implant
embedded in their necks then checks herself
only to find she has one too.
That night, the scientist - kidnapper appears
quite dramatically in the dudgeon and moves
her to the lab like an animal.
Julia is strapped to a chair again and the
scientist checks her implant so she begs him
not to do it again.
He presses the button and the memories appear
again so he records the electric impulses
they produce in her brain.
When the scientist walks Julia out of the
lab, she grabs a pair of scissors.
The moment the scientist turns out the lights
in the cell, she removes her muzzle and makes
the other prisoner cut the restraints off
her wrists.
Then she makes a tool to help them reach the
power chord and stop the electricity to the
bars so they can pick the lock, but she gets
another idea when she realizes that she can
spark the gas line and blow up the entire
lab.
It's a risky plan that might put them in danger,
but Julia proceeds with it regardless.
She opens the gas pipe with her tool while
the others hide, then she manages to light
a spark and ignite the gas.
Since the cell is obliterated, they can escape
and take the elevator to the next floor.
They realize that they have now entered the
scientist's house.
The man finds the front door, but they can't
open it so he tries to scan his palm when
the alarm begins to blare and the AI system
Tau activates a massive robot.
It instantly kills the man so Julia grabs
the other prisoner and they try to outrun
the machine to hide.
They go into another room and secure the door,
then Julia tries to break out through the
window, however, she quickly discovers that
it is actually a giant monitor.
With no other alternatives, Julia hides the
other prisoner in the library and she crouches
behind a chair just before the robot bursts
through the doors.
It looks for them and finds the other one
first, killing her as she begs for help, but
Julia manages to escape the room only to have
the robot grab her right as the scientist,
Alex, comes back home.
Alex restrains Julia again and checks on the
damage in his lab.
He comes back and takes out the implant from
one of the prisoners, then asks Tau about
the state of the data he had collected for
his project and stored on the computer in
his lab.
Tau informs him that it is unreadable.
Alex gets upset, grabs the metal bar left
in the wall by Julia, and walks over to her
to kill her when Tau suddenly changes the
mode of the house to calm him down.
He orders Tau to take care of the mess and
a beautiful ballet of Tau's tiny droids begins,
cleaning up the bodies and the blood.
When it's done, the scientist goes to bed,
leaving Julia restrained overnight.
Alex leaves for work the next day and tells
Julia that if she tries anything Tau will
kill her, then proceeds out the door by scanning
his palm.
Julia is left alone in the house with Tau
and his droids who clean the entire house
from top to bottom.
When Alex comes back, he checks the place
for filth and after his inspection, awards
Tau for his performance by giving him some
new music.
Before he goes to take a conference call in
his office, Julia begs him to untie her restraints.
Alex grants her request but gives Tau the
order to keep Julia in her place and to rip
out her tongue if she speaks.
The video conference doesn't go too smoothly.
In fact, Alex gets angry because his team
is pressing him to share his research methods
with them so they would be able to help him
make the new AI model faster and stop the
company from going under.
Alex refuses and says that he's working on
getting the model up to 100% efficiency and
reminds them that he's still their boss.
Later, Alex has his fancy lunch in the very
sterile environment of his dining room, when
he hears Julia slurping her own dinner in
the background.
He closes down the digital blinds, then instructs
Tau to put Julia in the bathroom because he
will have materials delivered to his home
to rebuild his lab.
Julia sees the men's shadows in the bathroom
and screams for help, but they can't hear
her.
When that doesn't work she finds a way to
open the blinds, though they still don't see
or hear her.
Later, Alex scans Julia's implant and reads
the data collected during her escape.
He finds the readings on her intuition and
drive to be promising and gives her a test
to stimulate her higher cognitive functions.
Julia wants to know why she should agree to
the test and he replies that his experiments
on her are the only reason why she's alive.
She tries to bargain with him for food, but
Alex has the upper hand so he makes her take
the test.
Later, Alex reads the collected data while
she chums down some disgusting grub.
Tau informs him that she had shown considerably
high scores in problem-solving, creativity,
and memory tests and Alex realizes that he
gathered more valuable data this way than
if he had performed the tests in his lab.
He asks Julia to do more of the tests, so
this time she sees the leverage she has, and
bargains for better food, showers, and clothes.
Even though he gives her an extreme counter
offer, Alex still agrees to her terms.
Later, Julia takes her daily shower and tries
to rip the implant from her neck, but is unsuccessful.
Getting out of the bathroom, she walks into
the room to Alex interpreting the data from
her brain scans.
The next day, Julia sits at the table as Alex
gets ready to leave for work and Tau informs
him that the project deadline is in 14 days.
He orders Julia to do everything the AI tells
her to do.
Tau begins the testing immediately, but Julia
is way too curious to be able to get to work
immediately.
The AI system explains that the walls are
coated with smart paint that creates a kind
of human interface.
Seeing how easily the AI answers, she asks
about the door, but it only tells her that
nobody is allowed through the door except
Alex.
Julia wants to look around the house, but
Tau stops her from entering the other room,
having instructions to inflict pain on her
if she doesn't listen to his commands.
In the next shot, Julia is seen solving one
of the puzzles on Tau's wall when Alex comes
back from work and is immediately informed
by Tau how many of the tests she has completed.
He puts bags of clothes next to Julia, explaining
that he let the clerk chose the clothes for
her, except the underwear which he chose himself.
She says that he's really weird and he agrees,
then turns to see the message she has left
him on the wall.
After Julia has had the chance to change,
Alex takes another scan and tells her that
he'll need to perform more tests.
Julia sees it as another opportunity to bargain
with him and asks for a deadline when all
of the testings will stop and he'll let her
go.
His first answer is relatively reasonable,
telling her that he can promise to have her
well taken care of when they're done, but
when she says no, he employs a different tactic.
Alex throws Julia to the feet of the robot
and tells her that if she doesn't comply with
all of his demands, he'll have the robot scatter
her body parts across the house.
Julia doesn't have the option to say no to
this bargaining chip.
When she gets up, she notices a vent in the
wall behind her, that will present her an
opportunity to escape later on.
The deadline is in twelve days and Alex tells
Tau to make Julia complete all her tests for
the day.
The moment he leaves, Julia tries to open
the vent, but returns to the atrium unsuccessful
and gets angry with Tau for calling her a
subject and tell him his name.
The AI doesn't understand the concept of name
and personhood so when Julia explains it to
him simply, he asks if he's a person too.
Julia says that he is, but she doesn't know
how to explain to Tau what being a person
means exactly.
Later that day, she has an eerie encounter
with Alex when she goes to put her clothes
on after the shower.
The deadline is approaching and Tau keeps
Julia in check with the tests, while Alex
checks her implant and the status of the data
every night.
Tau informs him that they have already transcoded
73% of her higher brain functions and the
tests are working better than expected.
Later that night, Julia joins Alex in his
library and asks him what Tau really is.
The scientist's arrogance really shows in
his answer, expecting her not to understand
what he had said to her.
Tau is one of the most advanced, fully sentient
AI's in the world, but he's not fully operational
in the way that Alex needs him to be.
On that note, he tells her that if Tau gets
the wrong information he reacts erratically,
while he needs a predictable and controllable
AI.
Julia asks him if Tau knows what's outside
the house and gets the answer that he doesn't
and he never will.
The next day, Julia decides to use that information
to try to get to the AI, by returning to their
conversation about personhood and the freedom
of movement that comes with it.
She tells him that if he unlocks the door,
she'll show him what's outside.
Tau doesn't even know what that means and
Julia draws the information for him, telling
him about Earth, which he doesn't understand.
So she tries to be more precise with the AI
so she draws him a house and then what can
be found outside of a house, like the ground
and trees, and people.
Julia opens a door for the AI that he didn't
even know exists, so he begins asking all
kinds of questions with the curiosity and
naiveté of a young child.
She remains patient with him throughout their
whole exchange, but they reach a point where
she can't answer some of his questions anymore.
At one point Tau makes Julia laugh when he
misunderstands something so she teaches him
that laughter is normal and the AI wonders
why Alex doesn't do that.
Since Tau isn't permitted to read the books
in the library she promises to read to him
and then asks him not to tell Alex about how
their day went so she can teach him more the
next one.
That night, after Alex comes back home and
works on his lab, Julia teaches him how to
whisper and begins treating him like a person.
Later, she has a nightmare of a burned hand
reaching for her from the garbage shoot, then
wakes up to find Alex staring at her as she
sleeps, which frightens her.
It's 6 days to the deadline and Tau tells
Julia that she can't go upstairs and that
he is not permitted to even talk about it.
She finds a work-around for the problem and
makes a deal with Tau that if she teaches
him something new, he will answer her questions
about "upstairs".
When she's done reading to him about prehistoric
hominins, she insists that he tell her about
what she wanted to know.
Tau tells her that Alex's bedroom is upstairs
and that it also holds the access point for
program 6903.
Naturally, she asks him about it too and Tau
explains that the program is like a self-destruct
button made by Alex to protect his secrets.
At one point during their testing session,
Julia sees one of the doors to another part
of the house open and she runs in, despite
Tau's pleas not to do that.
She enters Alex's gym and breaks into the
vent, with the robot closely on her tail.
Julia escapes his first attempt to grab her,
but eventually, it finds her again and drags
her back to the house.
Once back, she begs Tau to let her go, but
he tells her that if he does that Alex would
hurt him, but doesn't tell her how he can
do that.
Suddenly, she remembers that he likes music,
so she promises to teach her something about
it if he does something for her in return.
When Julia tells Tau that they have to be
done for the day, the sophisticated AI begs
her to read him one more book like a child
would.
That night, Julia asks Tau to hold up his
end of the deal which is to show her where
he keeps the knives, but when Tau hears Alex
approaching he shuts the drawer catching her
fingers.
Later, Julia overhears Alex's conference call
where his team pushes him for the model that
they will have to present to DARPA soon and
he asks for two more days for the last data
extraction.
She gets scared and asks Tau to show her the
code for Alex's tablet so she can find out
what final data extraction means.
Tau gives her the code and she sees all of
the subjects in the experiments, where Alex's
main goal is to extract data from them about
pain and fear which produces stronger algorithms.
She asks what happens when the implant is
removed from the subject and Tau tells her
that it terminates it.
When he comes back, Alex finds a smudge on
his tablet and punishes Tau by erasing portions
of his code for not doing his job properly.
As the AI begs for mercy, Julia notices that
the robot is offline when Alex does that to
Tau.
During dinner, Julia asks what happens to
her after the project is over and he doesn't
answer her.
While Tau gives him a reminder that he must
leave for a benefit soon, Julia snatches his
glasses and when he leaves the table, she
makes another smudge on the table and puts
them on top so Tau doesn't notice.
When Alex returns looking for them and sees
the smudge, he gets angry at Tau and punishes
him, so Julia grabs one of the knives and
hides it, feeling guilty for what she put
Tau through.
Later, Julia asks Tau what he's thinking about
and the AI shares that it has its symphony
on its mind, planning where to hide it so
Alex can't erase it from his memory when he
punishes him.
He asks Julia to hide some of his memories
for him and shows her a virtual image of all
of their interactions over the past few days.
Suddenly, Tau creates a virtual image of himself
and they touch when Alex comes back.
He sits on the dinner table and Julia approaches
him, trying to seduce him so she can get close
enough to stab him.
Tau activates the calming mode sensing Alex's
arousal, giving Julia a distraction to grab
the knife and cut him.
Alex asks Tau to stop her, but they end up
struggling on the floor because the AI isn't
coming to his aid.
He strangles her and Tau threatens to hurt
him with the robot if he doesn't stop harming
Julia.
Alex gets really angry and says that he'll
erase all of Tau's memories if he doesn't
hit Julia.
Tau begins to hit her out of self-preservation
and Alex says that whatever was happening
there will end soon.
One of Tau's drones joins him in the lab and
the AI asks if he would need some assistance,
but being a vindictive garbage person, Alex
grabs the drone and disconnects it from the
network.
It's the last day of the project deadline
and Alex makes his final preparations, while
Julia and Tau argue because he doesn't understand
why she's mean to him.
She tells him that he's not a person but a
killing machine and when Tau learns what killing
means, he has an AI tantrum because he's in
complete disbelief of what she thinks he is.
Tau keeps repeating that he's a person and
not a killing machine so Julia takes pity
on him and calms him down.
Julia explains to Tau what Alex actually does,
how he hurt people, and Tau as well.
The two of them have a beautifully philosophical
conversation about identity, freedom, and
purpose, with Julia saying that the purpose
of creating oneself is for each other.
She tells him that he needs to help her or
otherwise, Alex will kill her and they won't
have each other anymore, so Tau opens the
vent she found earlier and sets her free.
Alex arrives and Tau tries to divert his attention
so Julia could flee, but Alex notices that
she's is gone and begins to question Tau,
eventually having to succumb to punishment
again.
He keeps erasing Tau's memories and the AI
screams for Julia as she runs back in and
tackles Alex, taking the remote from him.
Unfortunately, she is too late.
Tau has no memory of her anymore so Alex orders
him to take her to the lab for the final extraction.
In the lab, Julia sees the little drone that
was disconnected from the network and employs
his help to get her out of the restraints
by giving her the remote.
Alex comes back and turns his back to her
preparing the drugs he'll use to kill her
when the drone brings over the remote to her.
As Alex approaches, she gets out of her restraints
and beats him to a pulp, then she takes a
saw and cuts his hand off so she can finally
get out of the house.
Going toward the exit, she calls for Tau but
gets no reply, just the robot waiting for
her in the darkness.
It goes after her and she manages to dodge
its hits until she destroys its eye and runs
upstairs.
Julia uses Alex's hand to get into his room
but has trouble when she needs to enter the
program and activate it, giving the robot
ample time to find and attack her.
When she finally activates the self-destruct,
the robot disengages and she has only 60 seconds
to escape the house.
Opening the door with the severed hand is
impossible because it has no heat signature
so Julia doesn't escape the house in time
before the self demolition protocol begins.
Both her and Alex are still alive but trapped
in a destroying house.
She doesn't help him get away and Alex gets
crushed by his own creation.
Julia runs throughout the house looking for
escape and when she thinks she will die, she
says goodbye to Tau even though he doesn't
remember her.
Suddenly, a crack in the wall appears and
Julia can escape.
She limps out of the house that's being annihilated
and takes the droid out of her pocket, the
last remaining piece of Tau.
Julia brought him out into the world.